doc/widget.md, before:

# widget

`widget` ( `form.widget` ) is an interface between form manager and UI.


## Constructor Options

 - `root`: root element of this widget. either an instance of Element, or CSS selector string.
 - `mode`: default `edit`. check the `mode` constructor option in `manager.md` for more information.
 - `opsets`: Array of opsets to use. Each opset can be one of:
   - `form.opset` object
   - opset config object.
   - id of opset.
 - `mod`: modifier that extend `form.widget`. Described below.
 - `meta`: configuration of this widget. Described below.
 - `value`: value of this widget. Described below.
 - `validate(v)`: (TBD) optional. validate the given value manually.


## API

 - `init()`: initialization
 - `root()`: get root element of this widget
 - `fire(name,...args)`: for firing event.
 - `on(name, cb(...args))`: handle event `name` with `cb` callback function, providing `args` arguments.
 - `render()`: shorthand for firing `render` event when something needs to be updated.
 - `status(v)`: get or set current status of this widget. value definition is the same with `ldform`:
   - 0: valid
   - 1: untouched ( not yet edit )
   - 2: invalid
   - 3: editing
   - 4 ~ 9: preserved
   - 10 and above: user defined.
 - `validate(opt)`: force re-validating user input.
   - return Promise, which resolves to list of errors ( if any ), or an object with following fields:
     - `status`: expected status
     - `errors`: list of errors ( if any )
   - options in opt:
     - `init`: true if this validation attempt is triggered by initial input ( e.g., deserialize ).
     - `force`: true if this validation attempt is triggered by intentional user action.
     - `now`, `skipEmpty`: options from `check` if called from `check`.
       - this is provided for customized validators passing
 - `serialize()`: (TBD)consider renaming to `config`, merge with `deserialize()`
 - `deserialize(meta, opt)`: return a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - parameters:
     - `meta`: widget meta. See `meta` section for detail definition.
     - `opt`: an object with following fields:
       - `init`: default false. when true, will init value if needed and validate with `init` set to true.
     - this fires `meta` event with the two parameters `meta` and `opt`.
 - `errors()`
 - `opsets()`
 - `data()`
 - `value(v, opt)`: set/get value
   - return value:
     - get: return the value stored in this widget.
     - set: a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - options:
     - `v`: value to set. call `value` without parameters to get its value.
     - `opt`: additional options, including:
       - `fromSource`: (TBD) this option may cause some issue. definition and implementation are contradicted
         - in this doc it's defined as `called from source, should fire change event.`
           however, in the code it prevent from firing `change` event.
           originally it should be designed to suppress change event,
           however nest block relys on `change` event to update its internal formmgr.
           that is, before we find use cases of suppressing change event, we should not use it.
         - for now, only `@makeform/table` and `widget.deserialize` use it.
       - `init`: this is for initialization. won't trigger status change ( leave it as `1` )
 - `content(v)`: get content from this widget.
   - get content from v if v is provided, otherwise from `value()`
   - concept of `content` is defined by widget, and will be used in validation.
   - for example, string get from input field is content, but widget may wrap this content in an object, which is defined as value here.
   - see also `mod.content` in following section.
 - `isEmpty(v): check for emptiness of a given value
   - get content from v if v is provided, otherwise from `value()`
   - see also `mod.isEmpty` in following section.
 - `isEqual(u,v): check for emptiness of a given value
   - return true if `u` and `v` are equivalent.
   - when `v` is omitted, internal value is used to compare against `u`
   - see also `mod.isEqual` in following section.
 - `adapt(opt)`: apply programmatic options such as uploadr from host environment.
   - `opt` is defined by speific widget.
 - `mode(v)`:
   - setting mode triggers validation. return a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - set widget mode to `v`, return current mode if `v` is omitted.
   - check constructor options for possible values of mode.
 - `manager(opt)`: return form manager(s) used by this widget.
   - return value: a list of form managers (an empty array is returned if no such manager available)
   - option:
     - `depth`: default 0 (all depth).
       - when non-zero value specified, widgets should return recursive manager only if depth > 1,
         and should pass down depth - 1 when calling recursive manager api.

## Events

 - `change`: fired when value is changed.
 - `status`: fired when status is changed, with following argument:
   - `status`: new status
 - `render`: fired when widget is going to re-rendered.
 - `mode`: fired when mode is changed.
 - `meta`: fired when metadata is (potentially) changed.
 - `init`: fired when widget is inited, including deserializing with `init` option set to true.
 - `config`: fired when metadata is changed due to editor configuring. (TBD)
 - `manager.changed`: fired when manager list updated.
   - `mod` developer is responsible for firing this event if mod updates formmgr list.

Since widgets are customizable, so as events. To use customized events, prefix event name with `widget`, such as:

    widget.on("widget.widget-specific-event", function () { ... })


## Internal members

 - `_data`
 - `_errors`
 - `_opsets`
 - `_value`
 - `_mode`


## Extension

 - `mod`
 - `_custom`


## meta and value

There are 2 types of widget data:

 - `meta`: widget metadata, define how this widget works, like `key`, `term`, `title`, `isPublic`, etc.
 - `value`: user input.

meta should be only editable by administrator. value is inputed by expected end users who are provided with this form.


### meta

 - `title`: a short description about purpose of this widget
 - `desc`: a longer description about purpose of this widget. optional
 - `tag`: an array of strings representing tags about this widget. optional
 - `key`: unique key identifying this widget
 - `alias`: alias of key, for semantic meaning. should also be unique.
   - for example, to locate a widget for phone number, we can search for widgets with `phone` alias.
   - useful when we lost old widget meta but want to associate old values with newly created widget.
 - `isRequired`: true if this widget should not be left empty.
 - `disabled`: if true, manager will ignore this widget.
 - `readonly`: true if user can edit its value
 - `defaultValue`: default value for this widget
 - `term`: Array of `op.term` objects. should be serialized when stored as data.


additional fields ( TBD )

 - `hint`: additional hint supposed to be shown after certain interaction
 - `placeholder`: placeholder value
 - `ext`: widget specific configuration


### value

value ( user input ) can be anything ( string, number or object ) and is defined by implementation of specific widget.


## Mod

mod is a set of functions that can be provided to `widget` for advanced functionality. These functions are called with `widget` as its context so you can access `widget` API directly with `this`.

 - `init()`: initialization
 - `render()`: called after switching mode, setting values or validating, for re-rendering
 - `isEmpty(v)`: provide `isEmpty` check above basic check against undefined or '' values.
   - if omitted, by default a value is empty if a value is undefined or is an empty string ( '' ).
 - `isEqual(u,v)`: compare `u`, `v` and only return true if `u` and `v` are equivalent.
 - `validate(opt)`: optional. content valiadator.
   - see `validate` in API for detail explanation of `opt`.
   - when provided, it should also update status manually with `status()`
   - return value: a list of errors, optionally in Promise, or an object with following fields:
     - `status`: expected status
     - `errors`: list of errors ( if any )
       - see `errors` section below for more information
   - even if provided, `widget` will still validate its emptyness and terms (if any) unless status 3 is returned.
 - `content(v)`: return semantic content instead of structure content.
   - if omitted, return the value from `value()` directly
   - return value may still be a structured data such as array or object, if widget intetionally does this.
     - however all the returned value should be considered as "content".
   - `@plotdb/form` validator use this to get value for validation.
 - `config`: config definition in `@plotdb/konfig` spec. ( TBD )
 - `manager()`: optional. if provided, return form manager(s) used in this widget is any.
   - return a form manager (or a list of that) used by this widget to manage child widgets.
   - note that `widget.manager()` always returns an array (even if empty) to users by converting result from here automatically.
 - `adapt(...)`: optional. adapt api or interface provided from host environment.
   - widgets are responsible of designing and documenting options used.
 - `ctrl()`: optional. return a customized widget control interface for caller to use.
 - `readonly()`: return true if this widget is readonly.
 - `isRequired`: true if this widget is required.
 - `disabled()`: return true if this widget is disabled.
 - `opsets`: optional, a list of dedicated opsets available for this widget.
   - You can specify an opset without `id` or `name` here as a fallback opset,
     used along with terms wit `opset` left empty.


## errors

Errors returned by `validate()` are usually string of messages indicating the reason of failure. However, following strings are reserved for special purpose:

 - `error`: a generic error.
 - `required`: this field is required.
 - `nested`: there are errors from widgets in nested formmgr
   - this error should trigger nested formggr lookup and will itslef be ignored then.


## base widget

TODO

Commit message:

- fix bug: `disabled`, `isRequired`, `readonly` may return undefined, causing issue for caller that need an explicit defined value.  - disable widget manager if this widget is disabled.    - update manager disable status also upon deserialize is called.  - add dev note about manager disable status in widget doc

doc/widget.md, after:

# widget

`widget` ( `form.widget` ) is an interface between form manager and UI.


## Constructor Options

 - `root`: root element of this widget. either an instance of Element, or CSS selector string.
 - `mode`: default `edit`. check the `mode` constructor option in `manager.md` for more information.
 - `opsets`: Array of opsets to use. Each opset can be one of:
   - `form.opset` object
   - opset config object.
   - id of opset.
 - `mod`: modifier that extend `form.widget`. Described below.
 - `meta`: configuration of this widget. Described below.
 - `value`: value of this widget. Described below.
 - `validate(v)`: (TBD) optional. validate the given value manually.


## API

 - `init()`: initialization
 - `root()`: get root element of this widget
 - `fire(name,...args)`: for firing event.
 - `on(name, cb(...args))`: handle event `name` with `cb` callback function, providing `args` arguments.
 - `render()`: shorthand for firing `render` event when something needs to be updated.
 - `status(v)`: get or set current status of this widget. value definition is the same with `ldform`:
   - 0: valid
   - 1: untouched ( not yet edit )
   - 2: invalid
   - 3: editing
   - 4 ~ 9: preserved
   - 10 and above: user defined.
 - `validate(opt)`: force re-validating user input.
   - return Promise, which resolves to list of errors ( if any ), or an object with following fields:
     - `status`: expected status
     - `errors`: list of errors ( if any )
   - options in opt:
     - `init`: true if this validation attempt is triggered by initial input ( e.g., deserialize ).
     - `force`: true if this validation attempt is triggered by intentional user action.
     - `now`, `skipEmpty`: options from `check` if called from `check`.
       - this is provided for customized validators passing
 - `serialize()`: (TBD)consider renaming to `config`, merge with `deserialize()`
 - `deserialize(meta, opt)`: return a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - parameters:
     - `meta`: widget meta. See `meta` section for detail definition.
     - `opt`: an object with following fields:
       - `init`: default false. when true, will init value if needed and validate with `init` set to true.
     - this fires `meta` event with the two parameters `meta` and `opt`.
 - `errors()`
 - `opsets()`
 - `data()`
 - `value(v, opt)`: set/get value
   - return value:
     - get: return the value stored in this widget.
     - set: a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - options:
     - `v`: value to set. call `value` without parameters to get its value.
     - `opt`: additional options, including:
       - `fromSource`: (TBD) this option may cause some issue. definition and implementation are contradicted
         - in this doc it's defined as `called from source, should fire change event.`
           however, in the code it prevent from firing `change` event.
           originally it should be designed to suppress change event,
           however nest block relys on `change` event to update its internal formmgr.
           that is, before we find use cases of suppressing change event, we should not use it.
         - for now, only `@makeform/table` and `widget.deserialize` use it.
       - `init`: this is for initialization. won't trigger status change ( leave it as `1` )
 - `content(v)`: get content from this widget.
   - get content from v if v is provided, otherwise from `value()`
   - concept of `content` is defined by widget, and will be used in validation.
   - for example, string get from input field is content, but widget may wrap this content in an object, which is defined as value here.
   - see also `mod.content` in following section.
 - `isEmpty(v): check for emptiness of a given value
   - get content from v if v is provided, otherwise from `value()`
   - see also `mod.isEmpty` in following section.
 - `isEqual(u,v): check for emptiness of a given value
   - return true if `u` and `v` are equivalent.
   - when `v` is omitted, internal value is used to compare against `u`
   - see also `mod.isEqual` in following section.
 - `adapt(opt)`: apply programmatic options such as uploadr from host environment.
   - `opt` is defined by speific widget.
 - `mode(v)`:
   - setting mode triggers validation. return a Promise which resolves when validation completes.
   - set widget mode to `v`, return current mode if `v` is omitted.
   - check constructor options for possible values of mode.
 - `manager(opt)`: return form manager(s) used by this widget.
   - return value: a list of form managers (an empty array is returned if no such manager available)
   - option:
     - `depth`: default 0 (all depth).
       - when non-zero value specified, widgets should return recursive manager only if depth > 1,
         and should pass down depth - 1 when calling recursive manager api.

## Events

 - `change`: fired when value is changed.
 - `status`: fired when status is changed, with following argument:
   - `status`: new status
 - `render`: fired when widget is going to re-rendered.
 - `mode`: fired when mode is changed.
 - `meta`: fired when metadata is (potentially) changed.
 - `init`: fired when widget is inited, including deserializing with `init` option set to true.
 - `config`: fired when metadata is changed due to editor configuring. (TBD)
 - `manager.changed`: fired when manager list updated.
   - `mod` developer is responsible for firing this event if mod updates formmgr list.

Since widgets are customizable, so as events. To use customized events, prefix event name with `widget`, such as:

    widget.on("widget.widget-specific-event", function () { ... })


## Internal members

 - `_data`
 - `_errors`
 - `_opsets`
 - `_value`
 - `_mode`


## Extension

 - `mod`
 - `_custom`


## meta and value

There are 2 types of widget data:

 - `meta`: widget metadata, define how this widget works, like `key`, `term`, `title`, `isPublic`, etc.
 - `value`: user input.

meta should be only editable by administrator. value is inputed by expected end users who are provided with this form.


### meta

 - `title`: a short description about purpose of this widget
 - `desc`: a longer description about purpose of this widget. optional
 - `tag`: an array of strings representing tags about this widget. optional
 - `key`: unique key identifying this widget
 - `alias`: alias of key, for semantic meaning. should also be unique.
   - for example, to locate a widget for phone number, we can search for widgets with `phone` alias.
   - useful when we lost old widget meta but want to associate old values with newly created widget.
 - `isRequired`: true if this widget should not be left empty.
 - `disabled`: if true, manager will ignore this widget.
 - `readonly`: true if user can edit its value
 - `defaultValue`: default value for this widget
 - `term`: Array of `op.term` objects. should be serialized when stored as data.


additional fields ( TBD )

 - `hint`: additional hint supposed to be shown after certain interaction
 - `placeholder`: placeholder value
 - `ext`: widget specific configuration


### value

value ( user input ) can be anything ( string, number or object ) and is defined by implementation of specific widget.


## Mod

mod is a set of functions that can be provided to `widget` for advanced functionality. These functions are called with `widget` as its context so you can access `widget` API directly with `this`.

 - `init()`: initialization
 - `render()`: called after switching mode, setting values or validating, for re-rendering
 - `isEmpty(v)`: provide `isEmpty` check above basic check against undefined or '' values.
   - if omitted, by default a value is empty if a value is undefined or is an empty string ( '' ).
 - `isEqual(u,v)`: compare `u`, `v` and only return true if `u` and `v` are equivalent.
 - `validate(opt)`: optional. content valiadator.
   - see `validate` in API for detail explanation of `opt`.
   - when provided, it should also update status manually with `status()`
   - return value: a list of errors, optionally in Promise, or an object with following fields:
     - `status`: expected status
     - `errors`: list of errors ( if any )
       - see `errors` section below for more information
   - even if provided, `widget` will still validate its emptyness and terms (if any) unless status 3 is returned.
 - `content(v)`: return semantic content instead of structure content.
   - if omitted, return the value from `value()` directly
   - return value may still be a structured data such as array or object, if widget intetionally does this.
     - however all the returned value should be considered as "content".
   - `@plotdb/form` validator use this to get value for validation.
 - `config`: config definition in `@plotdb/konfig` spec. ( TBD )
 - `manager()`: optional. if provided, return form manager(s) used in this widget is any.
   - return a form manager (or a list of that) used by this widget to manage child widgets.
   - Note:
     - `widget.manager()` always returns an array (even if empty) by converting result from here automatically.
     - developers should always disable managers from nested widget if current widget is itself disabled, and only enable managers if it's directly controlled by current widget, because even if current widget is enabled, its nested widget may still be disabled, leading to a disabled sub-manager.
 - `adapt(...)`: optional. adapt api or interface provided from host environment.
   - widgets are responsible of designing and documenting options used.
 - `ctrl()`: optional. return a customized widget control interface for caller to use.
 - `readonly()`: return true if this widget is readonly.
 - `isRequired`: true if this widget is required.
 - `disabled()`: return true if this widget is disabled.
 - `opsets`: optional, a list of dedicated opsets available for this widget.
   - You can specify an opset without `id` or `name` here as a fallback opset,
     used along with terms wit `opset` left empty.


## errors

Errors returned by `validate()` are usually string of messages indicating the reason of failure. However, following strings are reserved for special purpose:

 - `error`: a generic error.
 - `required`: this field is required.
 - `nested`: there are errors from widgets in nested formmgr
   - this error should trigger nested formggr lookup and will itslef be ignored then.


## base widget

TODO
